---
title: "Things to do to Help Your Business Survive During Coronavirus"
description: "Has your business suffered from a loss of profits and customers? The effects of coronavirus, like social distancing and working from home, mean many of us"
pubDate: 2020-04-30
originalUrl: "https://onlineconsulting.com.au/things-to-do-to-help-your-business-survive-during-coronavirus/"
---

Has your business suffered from a loss of profits and customers? The effects of coronavirus, like social distancing and working from home, mean many of us are spending more time indoors, as a result certain businesses cannot function as normal.

That means now’s the perfect time to [improve your online presence to help your business](/blog/how-to-build-a-strong-online-presence-for-business-success/) thrive during coronavirus.

### Improve social media presence

With all the free time that many people have gotten, where do you think they would spend a lot of it on? Social media of course! Already so many people use social media routinely in their lives. Wouldn’t it be great if they saw your business advertised while scrolling?

Most social media platforms allow anyone to create a page and post about their business for free. With a bit of work, you can add pictures, content, links to your pages and blogs and use appropriate hashtags to gradually attract an audience.

If you have enough time and willingness, don’t just limit yourself to Facebook. While it is the most popular social media, also consider running campaigns on twitter, instagram and reddit. This can expand your audience reach and you can combine these platforms with your ads and run special events to promote more growth.

One of the most popular events businesses run are giveaways! “For your chance to win this product, like, comment and subscribe, follow us on our other platforms” etc. This can expose your business to a range of people and may encourage some to purchase from you.

Of course, you can’t just rely on social media alone. You should also take advantage of a digital marketing strategy for your business.

### Digital marketing

Digital marketing uses practices such as Search Engine Optimisation (SEO) and social media advertising to grow an audience for your business.

SEO aims to organically increase exposure on search engines such as google by analyzing metadata generated by your website. (If you don’t have a website at all then there’s a good place to start).

Metadata involves keywords that your site is associated with. To explain this, think of what someone would type into Google if they’re searching for your product or service. Over time this will change, and by adapting these changes to your site, you will likely get more exposure.

This is a lot to manage on your own, so we would highly recommend hiring a reputable [digital marketing strategy](/blog/why-your-business-needs-a-digital-marketing-strategy/) specialist to assist you with this. Another way you can help your business thrive during coronavirus is to develop new products and services.

### Provide new products and services

We are in a strange, unfamiliar time. Now more than ever, companies who can adapt to how the world is changing will likely be more successful. Of course the information in this article is general in nature, it’s hard to give specific information.

You should find a way to provide your service in an effective manner at the greatest comfort to your customers. Here’s some suggestions:

- Provide a service with home delivery
- Provide a unique experience at someone’s home (eg. a ramen restaurant separately packages their products ingredients for home delivery, so they can prepare it themselves)
- Provide a service that can be done remotely, such as on the computer (+ phone is even better) (eg. some gym and fitness places are offering video workout sessions)
- If handover is necessary, ensure that you follow social distancing procedures and disinfect anything you/they will come in contact with. That feeling of safety and care can be very valuable.

With the extra time on your hands, it’s more than worth it to start exploring the options available for your business to keep it afloat during these times. If you want an expert’s opinion and advice on how you can help your business survive during coronavirus, reach out to an [IT consulting company in Sydney](/) at your earliest convenience.
